                                    Support Vector Machine Algorithm 
SVMs were first introduced by B.E. Boser et al. in 1992 and has become popular due to success in handwritten digit recognition in 1994.
Before the emergence of Boosting Algorithms, for example, XGBoost and AdaBoost, SVMs had been commonly used.
Support Vector Machine Algorithm is a supervised learning model that analyses data used for classification and regression analyses.
They essencially filter data into categories, which is achieved by providing a set of training examples, each set marked as belonging to one or the other of the two categories.
The algorithm then works to build a model that assigns new variables to one category or the other. 

it is a suitable classifier in following cases:
1) When number of features (variables) and number of training data is very large (say millions of features and millions of instances (data)).
2) When sparsity in the problem is very high, i.e., most of the features have zero value.
3) It is the best for document classification problems where sparsity is high and features/instances are also very high.
4) It also performs very well for problems like image classification, genes classsification, drug disambiguation etc. where number of features are high.

It is one of the best, because of following things:
1) It uses Kernel trick
2) It is Optimal margin based classification technique in Machine Learning.
3) Good number of algorithms are proposed which utilizes problem structures and other smaller-smaller things like problem shrinking during optimization etc.

it uses a technique called the kernel trick to transform your data and then based on these transformations it finds an optimal boundary between the possible outputs.
SVM is used for identifying the classification of genes, patients on the basis of genes and other biological problems. 
Protein fold and remote homology detection – Apply SVM algorithms for protein remote homology detection.
Handwriting recognition – it is used to recognize handwritten characters used widely.